---
layout: post
title: >
    Friends
hide_title: false
tags: []
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---
Really kind and honest friends have no substitute. They will lighten up your day and support you when needed. They also will point out your faults and enlighten you about things they discovered that you overlooked or were oblivious about that make you a better person. They will support you in your job hunt.

Being totally honest with your relatives is good but friends are the best testing grounds for your newest ideas without the risk of souring relations.

Anyways that have been my friends. You just have to be honest, genuine, open, and empathetic to get good friends. You should not be selfish and genuinely want the best for them as things work on reciprocity. Having the belief that life is not a zero\-sum game helps. You want to be with great people, but what if you can make the people you are with great? Hostile competition and bringing them down would be the opposite of what you'd want.

I have always aimed to give without expecting anything in return and have been surprised by how much I got. This is counterintuitive to the belief that all relations are transactional.

Also, I have noticed people's friends are a close reflection of how they themselves are. This means it is possible to have bad friends and influence if you do not have your life in order to realize what is really worthy. I recommend Jordan Peterson's books to get your life in order.

There is too much suffering in this world. Making it a little bit better is the noblest thing I can imagine.
*The only way to have a friend is to be one.*

\- Ralph Waldo Emerson
