---
layout: post
title: >
    Midwit
hide_title: false
tags: []
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---
I would love to write about [https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/iq\-bell\-curve\-midwit](https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/iq-bell-curve-midwit) because I feel that there's profound meaning in it.

It seems stupid people are necessary to bring order and stability and intelligent people are needed for creativity and progress. Stupid people save us from our own intelligence while intelligent people save us from our own stupidity\!

However, my thoughts have not crystallized on this yet, so in the spirit of this blog, I am keeping this page as a placeholder. Enjoy the memes in the meantime\!

One meme that is giving a scientific proof of the existance of this concept \(unverified\).
[
{% include image.html url="/assets/img/posts/9ea.jpg" caption="](https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEidrAZ7suKGbGIzYdwJBNBfL9Ghf2PTM8Ah_WYLosRab_CyVAtRJmpLKzqOg1J2T5HwVEfJ5aa9thH7qzFcFmvfZaSuUSGy_9wTwlQskkVnxU6pcraR2CaBCR_98aPp2vY9y7N7PZpBE0vmv94-fsqjLeRQdA2bjGpUepa9cWyVA5z1p8FlWPb6KJr4RA/s1600/9ea.jpg)" alt="" %}
BTW, here's one from me.
[
{% include image.html url="/assets/img/posts/cover4.png" caption="](https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEgqQxBoYwQrl9R6zcSPm2E7uN1OrD7wE3CJsH3KiDy284FXxnL8sPu6SOLN23A3hilQmiKta14uw3VZstf2obPA3GwkfNHyYD6TUOgkJKZECs5IdMaey3UJbrJeHxgUpa5dl_J53FplYSgIJ993jKA2BOe0GsZUZpfhJHsAHM2KXbLjdhYOrN-lcL2sQA/s1600/cover4.png)**Update:**" alt="" %}

I have lived with this knowledge long enough to comment and this topic is legitimately beyond fascinating.

Watch this [https://youtu.be/byb3ffrBYgU](https://youtu.be/byb3ffrBYgU).
[
{% include image.html url="/assets/img/posts/The duality of auth-right _ r_PoliticalCompassMemes.jpg" caption="](https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEg4HzcU2j3cNQcv6aPt3K_i5gj_JRnMS2WaB_0QQOiSIWPAXXsCjde3X5iHgbponaa1LeQGeQDO9g81MbNSGLbq0JSBpDiQkPvrZ2e00PegoPMhgxZTJYvL1zBHuGtt2-IVk5I1_9o9NpbxQOao8OwZlNZLn8nlpbCg55P90By-XDkN6n95stI3JPsQWQ/s1600/The%20duality%20of%20auth-right%20_%20r_PoliticalCompassMemes.jpg)" alt="" %}

The knowledge about midwits have radically changed how I make decisions in my life and has made my life so much simpler. For every decision, I now ask myself what do below average people think and the top wise people think in that topic. That choice is the correct one and usually opposite the thought of the midwits.

I'll give examples. 

1\) Are open borders good?

Low IQ: Never. I don't want illegal immigrants to steal my jobs and my way of life.

Midwit: This study, that study, and no job loss.

High IQ: It's complicated. Good people and refugees are loyal and genuinely create more jobs. Others would be more of a burden. Heaven is a walled garden.

2\) Should we be forced to take COVID vaccination with multiple booster doses?

Low IQ: I do not want the chemicals in me.

Midwit: Herd immunity, role models, models citizens take COVID vaccines. Restrict access to spaces for people who have not taken all doses.

High IQ: Vaccines are good but also dangerous as history has shown. We should be careful with vaccines especially with the ones made in a hurry. Long term studies are needed before we force vaccines on everyone. Either way force does not feel right and should be used only if survival of humanity is at stake.

Low IQ people are wise and smoothen out trends with experience. They are evergreen and I love them.

I will give one more example:

[
{% include image.html url="/assets/img/posts/EqHPwyTVoAAjwHU.jpg" caption="](https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEh1rLuOvVEKepulJWMkmyATPMrGvzdT3V5_XAJ-yGw-DnX8f66xKVIpyayBPYNHhMm5NZSE34YXqk8B0B4Uyr9nnVOh7w5AT6mfwTV-HmagwnFi68AlZbfbfAHKTfv8JisJtegozxFwYpw0FSKMdmVhD0zIVr0m7_o4tZb-lQi8Yh4IMSWYaAlXt0jBRg/s1600/EqHPwyTVoAAjwHU.jpg)" alt="" %}


I want to end with a comment on [https://youtu.be/byb3ffrBYgU](https://youtu.be/byb3ffrBYgU).

The professor has reason to be concerned given his passion for his field and general helpful nature. However, he should relax. The plain fact is that given the bell curve, there aren't too many High IQ people in the world. They are very few and far between. We need other people too and the general fact is that the number of people in academia is increasing and the number of High IQ people is limited.

In my experience and after talking to wise people I realized that not everyone is good. There are only very few good people in the world and they are the reason behind the world running properly. Otherwise there are too many passionate people willing to burn everything to the ground, nuclear or otherwise very soon.

Let me also mention that we should not assume that humans can comprehend everything. There would be things that even the most wise and intelligent human cannot grasp. Since we do not know everything, we should be humble and give everyone a chance to be heard. This is where politics come in, politics gives a way for everyone to be satisfied \(“politics is the art of making things possible”\) and that is not a bad thing given we really don't know the full truth and cannot comprehend it so why not get to the root of the matter and live peacefully together reducing the misery of life for all of us. That is the reason why we pursue the truth in the first place.

[
{% include image.html url="/assets/img/posts/quote-politics-is-the-art-of-the-possible-the-attainable-the-art-of-the-next-best-otto-von-bismarck-45-35-22.jpg" caption="](https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEhxixphwNGl9U9UT9LHRBDni7ipxVy5XYQAX4vhSGvwVIWzIokFjZzHkCDxy6jc_cblAfJ9AiJe9dDKkx9HI7gLp9H8tbbP0lUpjzPc2kLuC3YSruZNcOX_FneEjoaTpW6DGWUfyzSh9X2sxqHnPD6tDFpNkzaLchmbWeTRcutgeu7wANJsAJ7m-h_BWQ/s1600/quote-politics-is-the-art-of-the-possible-the-attainable-the-art-of-the-next-best-otto-von-bismarck-45-35-22.jpg)" alt="" %}

Oh, this article will not be complete without mentioning that IQ tests are not everything. In face they are highly flawed and does not mean anything of significance for most of us [https://medium.com/incerto/iq\-is\-largely\-a\-pseudoscientific\-swindle\-f131c101ba39](https://medium.com/incerto/iq-is-largely-a-pseudoscientific-swindle-f131c101ba39).

But I still believe in cognitive ability being different for everyone, whatever the reason.

Update: 

Simple people \- Practicality, whatever can work.

Midwits \- Principles.

Wise \- Principles do not cover all scenarios, sometimes we need to be practical.

It was very hard for me to distinguish between the simple and wise when we see practical ideas. It took me a lot of close observation.

I believe this is the reason why so many people in authority do not want to live in close proximity and expose themselves to the people they rule/control. It is so that they do not expose their unsophistication which can only be realized with close observation. Being distant means we will never be able to distinguish their stupidity with some masterstrokes.

It is there in politics, judiciary, military, government jobs, everywhere with a disproportionate power structure.
*"Without a winking smiley or other blatant display of humor, it is utterly impossible to parody a Creationist in such a way that someone won't mistake for the genuine article."*

\- Nathan Poe \(Poe's law\)

Poe's law is an adage of internet culture which says that, without a clear indicator of the author's intent, any parodic or sarcastic expression of extreme views can be mistaken by some readers for a sincere expression of those views.


Just keep in mind that no human’s IQ is high enough, compared to the cosmic IQ of God we are all stupid.

Note: The midwit curve is not just an IQ curve but a general curve of wit, ability, competence, or any other domain.

Update: Although I believe in the midwit concept as an interesting observation, I do not believe that IQ has any usefulness except probably below 80 for military which was the original purpose. The Mensa is just a bunch of high IQ losers and most successful people have a distribution towards the whole human IQ range questioning the utility of some military test in general.
