---
layout: post
title: >
    Politics and the archetypal evil
hide_title: false
tags: []
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---
I have read and analyzed politics and came to the following conclusion.
***"Politics simply means having good relations with everyone.

You can do your job well but without Politics it's difficult to rise or have greater leadership."***

This is probably oversimplified, so to clarify, good relations if not with everyone, then with the people in power but which ultimately is everyone.

## Politics

People should develop a critical mindset and consider all viewpoints when evaluating what is good for them, in the short term and the long term. This is essential to evaluate what is the right thing to do because we are not perfect and having a scientific method to come to a concusion has proved to be the the best way.

Reject lazy simplifications such as ideology and accept that the world is complicated and deal with it.

As for those who cannot do this, the below quote is apt. They can be used by others inconsiderate of their own best interest.
<iframe></iframe>

The main reason I feel this is the fact that the reason for any wrong is that we are not perfect.

I also believe that the archetypal devil is our own shortcomings. I have come to this conclusion after a lot of deep thinking. What is evil? Not very ideal or 'perfect' in the short/long term.

It is said to never attribute to malice what can easily be explained by stupidity. I take it a step further and said that any evil person is not 'perfect' in the sense that if he were perfect, he would see the futility of what he is doing and instead do the right thing. 

Evil is basically incompetence. What differentiates between evil and absolute incompetence is that evil can be rectified and the presence of evil shows that society has not been very effective. Functional societies will disincentivize evil. On the other hand, nothing much can be done about absolute incompetence. Hence evil is punished way more harshly than absolute incompetence/stupidity, for example, in court cases.

In my opinion there should be punishment for incompetence not only to improve society but to maintain it too <a href="https://mdsheraj123.github.io/2024/01/20/Life-is-suffering.html" target="_blank">https://mdsheraj123.github.io/2024/01/20/Life-is-suffering.html</a>. But always think what if the other side is just incompetent and scared, will punishment really help? Punish what can be improved, but be forgiving if someone is giving their best.

To be honest absolute incompetence is not that bad. The really simple people don't get fooled easily, nor do the really wise people. It is the midwits who can be the most dangerous as a little information is a dangerous thing. The devil is our shortcomings, in midwits it manifests as the spirit of deceit.
*"If we were all perfect, there would never be any issue or complexity. All complexity arises to handle our shortcomings."*

\- Me
*"The test for differentiating between a good and a bad person is having faced evil, does the person chose to make the world better, or instead choose to continue the evil. The archetypal devil is our shortcomings."*

\- Me

Update:

JBP says nobody ever gets away with anything, even once, and within this world. He says even Stalin suffered because everyone was scared of him and were never friendly. Well how about they were not actually evil and we ourselves are. How about North Korea is a creation of the USA with the petrodollar sanctions, propoganda, and isolation. How about they are fighting oppression and we don't even want to hear their point of view. Maybe Europeans should be the ones suffering despite their supremacist pride. Maybe people live happily in ignorance. Maybe people do their best and evil is ultimately incompetence and we pay for our incompetence.
