---
layout: post
title: >
    Spyware
hide_title: false
tags: []
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---
The US NSA Prism. The US has by law from the Bush era after 9/11 made it possible to spy on US and Non US citizens throughout the world via companies under the US jurisdiction.

I called the US President long back, the president did not pick it up but the executives did and they redirected me to an old lady that said some numbers. I searched it on google and it led to the US White House website.
I had a windows laptop and it just became unresponsive after that. The hard disk light was constantly blinking and everything was slow. This was fixed only after I reinstalled Windows.

I suspect this was a US spyware installed on my laptop scanning it.

I liked something on Palestine, donated and suddenly my Windows laptop became buggy and my messages did not go in Microsoft Teams. I could not connect to a VPN and only after restarting could I do so. Still many things were buggy.

I have a Samsung phone and it was fine, however my Google services were buggy. Especially I could not search anything on Google Patents as it said I was sending automated queries. My Google translate was fine but the image search was stuck. This is especially curious as I could see the first frame and then it was struck, this could be due to the camera feed being redirected to spyware. Well it would be better to just tee the camera frames but from my experience from Android this is very difficult. Frames meant for the SurfaceFlinger cannot be reused and cannot be teed as it would require changes in the Android Framework, and loading it from spyware is a huge engineering challenge. They just redirected the frames most likely. I am happy because as of now there is nobody in the world that have seemed to have solved this problem.

Apple seems better as it officially says it has never responded to requests for personal data of its users or installed backdoors in its devices.

However, I have since installed linux on my macbook, the problem is that it is difficult to get truly open source Linux because of the need for proprietary drivers. I will mostly shift from a macbook to a specialized linux laptop.

However, even on Linux, Yandex recently also said that there are automated queries from my Yandex account and that it is locking my account to SMS entry only.

Elon musk in his podcast told that this spying of ordinary people does not give much, just some porn information. It seems now that child porn is a front to catch people.

What people eat and what people do seems useless. It could be useful in massive statistics.

Now I am no longer afraid of Chinese spyware. All this hoax could be just projecting to China.
It does not matter to a person the source of the spying, only if the person could avoid it.

My wife told me, no matter what politics, if I am fine, everything will be fine. Be mentally healthy. Let others surveill, do politics, whatever, I will be normal and happy. If there is a war, don't go there. The surveillance information is mostly useless anyways as Elon musk told in the Joe Rogan podcast.
